index.md, before:

# Cardoo Integration Guide

## Table of Contents

- [Definitions](#definitions)
- [Flow Overview](#flow-overview)
  - [Customer’s Point of View](#customers-pov)
  - [Your System’s Point of View](#your-systems-pov)
- [API Reference](#api-reference)
  - [Overview](#api-overview)
  - [Price Request](#api-price-request)
  - [One-time orders](#api-orders-onetime)
    - [Creating an Order (POST)](#api-orders-onetime-post)
    - [Getting order details (GET)](#api-orders-onetime-get)
  - [Callbacks](#api-callbacks)

## Definitions <a name="definitions"></a>
- **Acquiring** - A service of transferring money from a customer to a car rental agency 
- **Customer** - A person renting a car 
- **Deposit Free** - A service enabling a customer to rent a car without making a security deposit 
- **Issued Guarantee** - A legally binding commitment between Cardoo and a car rental agency in accordance with a contract in a context of an Order 
- **Guarantee State** - Our decision regarding a guarantee issuance 
- **Order** - An entity, a collection of services in a context of a specified car rental booking 
- **Order Approval Process** - Our internal process aimed to determine whether we are willing to issue a Guarantee 
- **Price Request** - A request to calculate the cost of a Deposit Free service in a context of a specified car rental parameters 


## Flow Overview <a name="flow-overview"></a>
Our solution implements all the crucial steps, which are: 
* Calculating the price of our product for a specific car rental offer
* Receiving a payment from a customer (incl. some prepay amount for a car rental)
* Identification and verification of a customer
* Communicating with your system via API regarding the status of verification/approval process

These steps will be described in following sections from the points of view of a customer and your system.

### Customer’s Point of View  <a name="customers-pov"></a>
A customer is browsing a website of one of our partners and looking for a car to rent for a specified time interval. 
When they open a detailed view of one of the rental offers there’s a section with additional services which includes our product - Deposit Free - with a price. 
If a customer chooses to use our solution and proceeds to book, they get redirected to our Customer Flow page where they: 
* pay for an order 
* upload their ID document. 

After completion of these steps the order undergoes the approval process which includes verification of a customer.
When the decision is made to either approve or reject the order, the corresponding email will be sent to a customer. In case of approval a customer will also receive an issued guarantee agreement. In case of rejection we will unhold the money on a customer's card within 24 hours.

### Your System’s Point of View <a name="your-systems-pov"></a>
Your system forms the list of additional services for a specific car rental offer. To get a price for Cardoo’s Deposit Free your system has to make the price request to our system.

When a customer chooses our solution and starts the booking process, your system will need to make the order creation request to our system and in response will get an URL to the Customer Flow. Your system will need to redirect a customer to that URL instead of your usual payment page.

After our order approval process has been completed, your system will receive a signal which will not contain the actual decision. Upon receiving that signal your system should make a request to our system to get our decision. 


# API Reference <a name="api-reference"></a>
## Overview  <a name="api-overview"></a>
The Cardoo API allows you to manage orders and request prices for our products in a simple way using conventional HTTP requests.

#### Requests
All requests should be made using the HTTPS protocol so that traffic is encrypted.

When passing parameters in a POST request, parameters must be passed as a JSON object containing attribute names and values as key-value pairs. You must also set `Content-Type` header to `application/json`.

#### Authentication
All requests to Cardoo API must be authenticated.

In order to make an authenticated request, include an `Authorization` header containing your token as follows: `Access-Token: YOUR_TOKEN`.

**TODO:** Add information on how to receive the Token.

#### Responses
In general, if the status of the response is in the 200 range, it indicates that the request was fulfilled successfully and no error was encountered.

Return codes in the 400 range indicate some issue with the request that was sent. This could mean that you did not authenticate, or an object with given attributes could not be created.

A response status in 500 range indicates a server-side problem.

#### Error Objects
When you get a response in 400 range, it will contain an error object with code and a message:

```json
{
  "status": 422,
  "message": "Deposit amount has to be greater than zero"
}
```

#### Other Conventions
Date and time values must be formatted according ISO 8601.

Monetary values are represented as an object with value in cents and currency in ISO format. For example, 11.54 euros must be passed as 1154 cents:

```json
{
  "cents": 1154,
  "currency_iso": "eur"
}
```



## Price Request <a name="api-price-request"></a>
Price request endpoint allows you to request a price of our product for a customer.


### POST /partner_api/price_request
To create a price request that can later be used for creating an order, send a `POST` request with parameters of a rental.

When the price was successfully calculated, the response status would be `201 Created`.

#### Request Body Schema

Example request body:
```json
{
  "vehicle": "Tesla Roadster",
  "session_cookie_id": 1,
  "deposit_amount": {
    "cents": 500000,
    "currency_iso": "EUR"
  },
  "pickup_time": "2021-12-24T10:00:00Z",
  "dropoff_time": "2021-12-27T10:00:00Z"
}
```

###### vehicle

Vehicle name as a string.

###### session_cookie_id

Session cookie ID of the customer in your system.

###### deposit_amount
Deposit amount for the vehicle as a [Money Object](#other-conventions).

###### pickup_time

Time when the rental is supposed to begin.

###### dropoff_time

Time when the rental is supposed to end.

#### Response Body Schema
Example response body:
```json
{
  "price_request_id": "76aed270-4b39-44ca-b6c2-a1b8d0b67288",
  "timestamp": 1631556435543,
  "price": {
    "cents": 12000,
    "currency_iso": "EUR"
  }
}
```

###### price_request_id
UUID for the price request. Must be used for [creating an order](#post-partner_apiordersonetime).

###### price
Price for Cardoo product for the customer as a [Money Object](#other-conventions).

###### timestamp
Time when the price was calculated.



## One-time orders <a name="api-orders-onetime"></a>
One-time orders endpoints allow you to create orders for customers that don’t have a subscription at Cardoo.


### POST /partner_api/orders/onetime <a name="api-orders-onetime-post"></a>
To create a one-time order for a customer, send a `POST` request with parameters of a rental, price request ID, and required callbacks.

When the one-time order was successfully calculated, the returned response status would be `201 Created`.

#### Request Body Schema

Example request body:
```json
{
  "partner_order_id": "X666",
  "price_request_id": "76aed270-4b39-44ca-b6c2-a1b8d0b67288",
  "customer": {
    "first_name": "Jane",
    "last_name": "Doe",
    "email": "jane@gmail.com",
    "phone_number": "+1-541-754-3010"
  },
  "pickup_time": "2021-12-24T10:00:00+00:00",
  "dropoff_time": "2021-12-28T10:00:00+00:00",
  "city": "Italy",
  "country": "Florence",
  "vehicle": "BMW I5",
  "callbacks": {
    "guarantee_state_changed": "https://callback_url"
  },
  "redirects": {
    "success_url": "https://success",
    "failure_url": "https://failure_url"
  },
  "acquiring": {
    "prepay": "full",
    "price": {
      "cents": 10000,
      "currency_iso": "EUR"
    }
  },
  "deposit_free": {
    "price": {
      "cents": 2800,
      "currency_iso": "EUR"
    },
    "deposit_amount": {
      "cents": 500000,
      "currency_iso": "EUR"
    }
  }
}
```

###### partner_order_id

Order ID in your system

###### price_request_id

This is the ID that you got when [requesting the price](#post-partner_apiprice_request)

###### customer

Customer object

 `first_name`
Customer first name

 `last_name`
Customer last name

 `email`
Customer email

 `phone_number`
Customer phone number with country code in E.164 format.

###### pickup_time

Time when the rental is supposed to begin.

###### dropoff_time

Time when the rental is supposed to end.

###### country

Country name as in ISO_3166.

###### city

City name.

###### vehicle

Vehicle name as a string.

###### callbacks

*Optional* Object with callbacks URLs. You can find more details about callbacks logic in [Callbacks](#callbacks) section.

 `guarantee_state_changed`
URL that will be triggered with a POST request when Cardoo guarantee state changes.

###### redirects

Object with URLs where the customer will be redirected to.

`success_url`
The URL for redirecting the customer in case of successfully completing a transaction with Cardoo.

`failure_url`
The URL for redirecting the customer in case he fails to complete a transaction with Cardoo.

###### acquiring

*Optional* Object with the amount that must be acquired from the customer for the rental by Cardoo.

`prepay`
*Optional* Indicates whether the acquiring sum is full rental price or just part of it. Can be  `full` or `partial`.

 `price`
Amount that must be acquired [Money Object](#other-conventions).

**deposit_fee**

`price`
Price for Cardoo product for the customer as a [Money Object](#other-conventions).

`deposit_amount`
Deposit amount for the vehicle as a [Money Object](#other-conventions).

#### Response Body Schema
Example response body:
```json
{
  "order_id": "3a58ed01-9fab-45b4-b22b-c84478e68f1d",
  "invoice_id": "b0427f76-b23c-49f9-b24d-91e300e6a6c6",
  "customer_flow_url": "https://customer-flow.cardoo.finance/orders/3a58ed01-9fab-45b4-b22b-c84478e68f1d/flow"
}
```

###### order_id
UUID of the created one-time order.

###### invoice_id
UUID of the invoice for the created one-time order.

###### customer_flow_url
URL where the customer must be redirected for starting a transaction with Cardoo.



## Getting order details <a name="api-orders-onetime-get"></a>
Orders endpoint allows you to get order information, along with its guarantee issuance state and payment state.


### GET /partner_api/orders/onetime/:id
To get order details, send a `GET` request with order ID.


#### Response Body Schema
Example response body:
```json
{
  "order_id": "3a58ed01-9fab-45b4-b22b-c84478e68f1d",
  "invoice_id": "b0427f76-b23c-49f9-b24d-91e300e6a6c6",
  "customer_flow_url": "https://customer-flow.cardoo.finance/orders/3a58ed01-9fab-45b4-b22b-c84478e68f1d/flow",
  "guarantee_issuance_state": "issued",
  "invoice_state": "paid",
  "partner_order_id": "X666",
  "price_request_id": "76aed270-4b39-44ca-b6c2-a1b8d0b67288",
  "customer": {
    "first_name": "Jane",
    "last_name": "Doe",
    "email": "jane@gmail.com",
    "phone_number": "+1-541-754-3010"
  },
  "pickup_time": "2021-12-24T10:00:00+00:00",
  "dropoff_time": "2021-12-28T10:00:00+00:00",
  "city": "Italy",
  "country": "Florence",
  "vehicle": "BMW I5",
  "callbacks": {
    "guarantee_state_changed": "https://callback_url"
  },
  "redirects": {
    "success_url": "https://success",
    "failure_url": "https://failure_url"
  },
  "acquiring": {
    "prepay": "full",
    "price": {
      "cents": 10000,
      "currency_iso": "EUR"
    }
  },
  "deposit_free": {
    "price": {
      "cents": 2800,
      "currency_iso": "EUR"
    },
    "deposit_amount": {
      "cents": 500000,
      "currency_iso": "EUR"
    }
  }
}
```

###### order_id
UUID of the one-time order.

###### invoice_id
UUID of the invoice for the created one-time order.

###### customer_flow_url
URL where the customer must be redirected for starting a transaction with Cardoo.

###### guarantee_issuance_state
Cardoo guarantee issuance state of the order. Can be one of:

 - `pending` - decision hasn’t been made yet
 - `issued` - guarantee has been successfully issued
 - `denied` - guarantee has been denied

###### invoice_state
Payment state of the order. Can be one of:

- `issued` - invoice was issued, but not yet paid
- `paid` - invoice was paid
- `failed` - invoice was not paid due to some failure

###### Order properties
Rest of the fields contain properties of the rental, callback and redirect URLs for this order, as well as properties of Cardoo product. For more details about these fields, please refer to ["Creating an Order (POST)"](#api-orders-onetime-post) section.



## Callbacks <a name="api-callbacks"></a>
Cardoo uses callbacks for notifying partners about changes in orders.

When the order state changes, we will make a POST request with an empty body to a URL that you specified when creating an order.

If the URL that you provided as a callback URL is not available when we trigger the callback request, or returns a 500 status code, we will retry the request with increasing time intervals.

#### Guarantee state changed
This callback is triggered, when Cardoo issues or denies guarantee to the customer.

Commit message:

fix: definitions refac: money object

index.md, after:

# Cardoo Integration Guide

## Table of Contents

- [Definitions](#definitions)
- [Flow Overview](#flow-overview)
  - [Customer’s Point of View](#customers-pov)
  - [Your System’s Point of View](#your-systems-pov)
- [API Reference](#api-reference)
  - [Overview](#api-overview)
  - [Price Request](#api-price-request)
  - [One-time orders](#api-orders-onetime)
    - [Creating an Order (POST)](#api-orders-onetime-post)
    - [Getting order details (GET)](#api-orders-onetime-get)
  - [Callbacks](#api-callbacks)

## Definitions <a name="definitions"></a>
- **Acquiring** - Receiving car rental fee from customers' bank payment cards and transferring it to the car rental company in scope of the sales agency contract between Cardoo and the car rental company. 
- **Customer** - A person renting a car 
- **Deposit Free** - A service enabling a customer to rent a car without making a security deposit 
- **Issued Guarantee** - A legally binding commitment between Cardoo and a car rental company in accordance with a contract in a context of an Order 
- **Guarantee State** - Our decision regarding guarantee issuance 
- **Order** - An entity, a collection of services in a context of a specified car rental booking
- **One-time Order** - A type of order with fixed pickup and drop-off dates and no recurrent payments.
- **Order Approval Process** - Our internal process aimed to determine whether we are willing to issue a Guarantee 
- **Price Request** - A request to calculate the cost of a Deposit Free service in a context of a specified car rental parameters 


## Flow Overview <a name="flow-overview"></a>
Our solution implements all the crucial steps, which are: 
* Calculating the price of our product for a specific car rental offer
* Receiving a payment from a customer (incl. some prepay amount for a car rental)
* Identification and verification of a customer
* Communicating with your system via API regarding the status of verification/approval process

These steps will be described in following sections from the points of view of a customer and your system.

### Customer’s Point of View  <a name="customers-pov"></a>
A customer is browsing a website of one of our partners and looking for a car to rent for a specified time interval. 
When they open a detailed view of one of the rental offers there’s a section with additional services which includes our product - Deposit Free - with a price. 
If a customer chooses to use our solution and proceeds to book, they get redirected to our Customer Flow page where they: 
* pay for an order 
* upload their ID document. 

After completion of these steps the order undergoes the approval process which includes verification of a customer.
When the decision is made to either approve or reject the order, the corresponding email will be sent to a customer. In case of approval a customer will also receive an issued guarantee agreement. In case of rejection we will unhold the money on a customer's card within 24 hours.

### Your System’s Point of View <a name="your-systems-pov"></a>
Your system forms the list of additional services for a specific car rental offer. To get a price for Cardoo’s Deposit Free your system has to make the price request to our system.

When a customer chooses our solution and starts the booking process, your system will need to make the order creation request to our system and in response will get an URL to the Customer Flow. Your system will need to redirect a customer to that URL instead of your usual payment page.

After our order approval process has been completed, your system will receive a signal which will not contain the actual decision. Upon receiving that signal your system should make a request to our system to get our decision. 


# API Reference <a name="api-reference"></a>
## Overview  <a name="api-overview"></a>
The Cardoo API allows you to manage orders and request prices for our products in a simple way using conventional HTTP requests.

#### Requests
All requests should be made using the HTTPS protocol so that traffic is encrypted.

When passing parameters in a POST request, parameters must be passed as a JSON object containing attribute names and values as key-value pairs. You must also set `Content-Type` header to `application/json`.

#### Authentication
All requests to Cardoo API must be authenticated.

In order to make an authenticated request, include a header containing your token as follows: `Access-Token: YOUR_TOKEN`.

**TODO:** Add information on how to receive the Token.

#### Responses
In general, if the status of the response is in the 200 range, it indicates that the request was fulfilled successfully and no error was encountered.

Return codes in the 400 range indicate some issue with the request that was sent. This could mean that you did not authenticate, or an object with given attributes could not be created.

A response status in 500 range indicates a server-side problem.

#### Error Objects
When you get a response in 400 range, it will contain an error object with code and a message:

```json
{
  "status": 422,
  "message": "Deposit amount has to be greater than zero"
}
```

#### Date and Time Values
Date and time values must be formatted according ISO 8601.

#### Money Object

Monetary values are represented as an object with value in cents and currency in ISO format. For example, 11.54 euros must be passed as 1154 cents:

```json
{
  "cents": 1154,
  "currency_iso": "eur"
}
```



## Price Request <a name="api-price-request"></a>
Price request endpoint allows you to request a price of our product for a customer.


### POST /partner_api/price_request
To create a price request that can later be used for creating an order, send a `POST` request with parameters of a rental.

When the price was successfully calculated, the response status would be `201 Created`.

#### Request Body Schema

Example request body:
```json
{
  "vehicle": "Tesla Roadster",
  "session_cookie_id": 1,
  "deposit_amount": {
    "cents": 500000,
    "currency_iso": "EUR"
  },
  "pickup_time": "2021-12-24T10:00:00Z",
  "dropoff_time": "2021-12-27T10:00:00Z"
}
```

###### vehicle

Vehicle name as a string.

###### session_cookie_id

Session cookie ID of the customer in your system.

###### deposit_amount
Deposit amount for the vehicle as a [Money Object](#money-object).

###### pickup_time

Time when the rental is supposed to begin.

###### dropoff_time

Time when the rental is supposed to end.

#### Response Body Schema
Example response body:
```json
{
  "price_request_id": "76aed270-4b39-44ca-b6c2-a1b8d0b67288",
  "timestamp": 1631556435543,
  "price": {
    "cents": 12000,
    "currency_iso": "EUR"
  }
}
```

###### price_request_id
UUID for the price request. Must be used for [creating an order](#post-partner_apiordersonetime).

###### price
Price for Cardoo product for the customer as a [Money Object](#money-object).

###### timestamp
Time when the price was calculated.



## One-time orders <a name="api-orders-onetime"></a>
One-time orders endpoints allow you to create orders for customers.


### POST /partner_api/orders/onetime <a name="api-orders-onetime-post"></a>
To create a one-time order for a customer, send a `POST` request with parameters of a rental, price request ID, and required callbacks.

When the one-time order was successfully calculated, the returned response status would be `201 Created`.

#### Request Body Schema

Example request body:
```json
{
  "partner_order_id": "X666",
  "price_request_id": "76aed270-4b39-44ca-b6c2-a1b8d0b67288",
  "customer": {
    "first_name": "Jane",
    "last_name": "Doe",
    "email": "jane@gmail.com",
    "phone_number": "+1-541-754-3010"
  },
  "pickup_time": "2021-12-24T10:00:00+00:00",
  "dropoff_time": "2021-12-28T10:00:00+00:00",
  "city": "Italy",
  "country": "Florence",
  "vehicle": "BMW I5",
  "callbacks": {
    "guarantee_state_changed": "https://callback_url"
  },
  "redirects": {
    "success_url": "https://success",
    "failure_url": "https://failure_url"
  },
  "acquiring": {
    "prepay": "full",
    "price": {
      "cents": 10000,
      "currency_iso": "EUR"
    }
  },
  "deposit_free": {
    "price": {
      "cents": 2800,
      "currency_iso": "EUR"
    },
    "deposit_amount": {
      "cents": 500000,
      "currency_iso": "EUR"
    }
  }
}
```

###### partner_order_id

Order ID in your system

###### price_request_id

This is the ID that you got when [requesting the price](#post-partner_apiprice_request)

###### customer

Customer object

 `first_name`
Customer first name

 `last_name`
Customer last name

 `email`
Customer email

 `phone_number`
Customer phone number with country code in E.164 format.

###### pickup_time

Time when the rental is supposed to begin.

###### dropoff_time

Time when the rental is supposed to end.

###### country

Country name as in ISO_3166.

###### city

City name.

###### vehicle

Vehicle name as a string.

###### callbacks

*Optional* Object with callbacks URLs. You can find more details about callbacks logic in [Callbacks](#callbacks) section.

 `guarantee_state_changed`
URL that will be triggered with a POST request when Cardoo guarantee state changes.

###### redirects

Object with URLs where the customer will be redirected to.

`success_url`
The URL for redirecting the customer in case of successfully completing a transaction with Cardoo.

`failure_url`
The URL for redirecting the customer in case he fails to complete a transaction with Cardoo.

###### acquiring

*Optional* See [Definitions](#definitions) for the description of our Acquiring service.

`prepay`
*Optional* Indicates whether the acquiring sum is full rental price or just part of it. Can be  `full` or `partial`.

 `price`
Amount that must be charged from a customer and transferred to the car rental company [Money Object](#money-object).

**deposit_fee**

`price`
Price for Cardoo's Deposit Free product (see [Definitions](#definitions)) for the customer as a [Money Object](#money-object).

`deposit_amount`
Deposit amount for the vehicle as a [Money Object](#money-object).

#### Response Body Schema
Example response body:
```json
{
  "order_id": "3a58ed01-9fab-45b4-b22b-c84478e68f1d",
  "invoice_id": "b0427f76-b23c-49f9-b24d-91e300e6a6c6",
  "customer_flow_url": "https://customer-flow.cardoo.finance/orders/3a58ed01-9fab-45b4-b22b-c84478e68f1d/flow"
}
```

###### order_id
UUID of the created one-time order.

###### invoice_id
UUID of the invoice for the created one-time order.

###### customer_flow_url
URL where the customer must be redirected for starting a transaction with Cardoo.



## Getting order details <a name="api-orders-onetime-get"></a>
Orders endpoint allows you to get order information, along with its guarantee issuance state and payment state.


### GET /partner_api/orders/onetime/:id
To get order details, send a `GET` request with order ID.


#### Response Body Schema
Example response body:
```json
{
  "order_id": "3a58ed01-9fab-45b4-b22b-c84478e68f1d",
  "invoice_id": "b0427f76-b23c-49f9-b24d-91e300e6a6c6",
  "customer_flow_url": "https://customer-flow.cardoo.finance/orders/3a58ed01-9fab-45b4-b22b-c84478e68f1d/flow",
  "guarantee_issuance_state": "issued",
  "invoice_state": "paid",
  "partner_order_id": "X666",
  "price_request_id": "76aed270-4b39-44ca-b6c2-a1b8d0b67288",
  "customer": {
    "first_name": "Jane",
    "last_name": "Doe",
    "email": "jane@gmail.com",
    "phone_number": "+1-541-754-3010"
  },
  "pickup_time": "2021-12-24T10:00:00+00:00",
  "dropoff_time": "2021-12-28T10:00:00+00:00",
  "city": "Italy",
  "country": "Florence",
  "vehicle": "BMW I5",
  "callbacks": {
    "guarantee_state_changed": "https://callback_url"
  },
  "redirects": {
    "success_url": "https://success",
    "failure_url": "https://failure_url"
  },
  "acquiring": {
    "prepay": "full",
    "price": {
      "cents": 10000,
      "currency_iso": "EUR"
    }
  },
  "deposit_free": {
    "price": {
      "cents": 2800,
      "currency_iso": "EUR"
    },
    "deposit_amount": {
      "cents": 500000,
      "currency_iso": "EUR"
    }
  }
}
```

###### order_id
UUID of the one-time order.

###### invoice_id
UUID of the invoice for the created one-time order.

###### customer_flow_url
URL where the customer must be redirected for starting a transaction with Cardoo.

###### guarantee_issuance_state
Cardoo guarantee issuance state of the order. Can be one of:

 - `pending` - decision hasn’t been made yet
 - `issued` - guarantee has been successfully issued
 - `denied` - guarantee has been denied

###### invoice_state
Payment state of the order. Can be one of:

- `issued` - invoice was issued, but not yet paid
- `paid` - invoice was paid
- `failed` - invoice was not paid due to some failure

###### Order properties
Rest of the fields contain properties of the rental, callback and redirect URLs for this order, as well as properties of Cardoo product. For more details about these fields, please refer to ["Creating an Order (POST)"](#api-orders-onetime-post) section.



## Callbacks <a name="api-callbacks"></a>
Cardoo uses callbacks for notifying partners about changes in orders.

When the order state changes, we will make a POST request with an empty body to a URL that you specified when creating an order.

If the URL that you provided as a callback URL is not available when we trigger the callback request, or returns a 500 status code, we will retry the request with increasing time intervals.

#### Guarantee state changed
This callback is triggered, when Cardoo issues or denies guarantee to the customer.
